Okay.
So in our action button component, we are now able to apply one of two styles, either primary or secondary,
which affects how our action button component looks.
But as our code currently stands, there's really no way for us to get to that secondary style because
we have a single primary key.
It's always kicking off with a value of true, and there's no way to alter this value to a false in
order to trigger a button class reevaluation.
Now, that's not necessarily a problem because for a typical button, we're not going to flip back and
forth between primary and secondary.
Our original goal was for this action button to be reusable as either a primary button or a secondary
button.
And right now it's not serving that use case either.
So how can we add that level of flexibility to the action button?
Well, we can think of it one level higher or one component higher.
So imagine if every parent component throughout the app that needed an action button could specify which
type of action button it needed.
That way, one component that needs a primary action button would tell the action button that it needs
to have the primary styles.
And another parent component that needs the secondary styles would tell the action button that it needs
to be secondary.
Well, how can we pass in some kind of custom information from parent to child?
You guessed it, it's going to be another prop we can pass in a prop from the parent to the child that
will inform what it should render.
And then in our setup in the action button component, we can take that prop and use that to determine
our data and our computed property as well.
And I'm going to show you how to do that in this lesson.
So instead of starting with our action button, let's start with our main NAV component, which I have
opened here on the left hand side.
Here is our action button.
And let's imagine that we're going to write a bunch of code that reflects what we wish we had, what
we wish we could be able to do.
So I can imagine or wish that I have some kind of prop here on my action button and I'm just going to
pick an arbitrary name like is primary and I'd like to be able to feed in a boolean like true or false.
And if it's true, of course, then my action button will have the primary styles.
And if the is primary prop is set to false, then I'll have the secondary styles.
This is just one idea of how I could pass in a prop.
It seems to me like a pretty elegant way to start out.
So let's say we want to go for something like this.
Okay, so there's a couple caveats I have to teach you about view here.
When we're doing something like this by default, whenever we pass in a prop view is going to interpret
its value as a string.
So for something like our text prop above, that's totally fine because we want to pass in a string
of sign in because we're going to render that text prop right here.
But for something like is primary, we don't actually want a string of true or a string of false.
We want a boolean value of false, right?
There's a big difference in JavaScript between a boolean value and a string that coincidentally has
the letters TR you eat.
So what we can do here in order to make our view interpreted as a actual boolean is use the V bind directive.
So I'm going to write out the code and we're going to talk about it.
So right here we're going to use the same syntax as we've used with V bind before.
Remember it's V dash bind followed by a colon and then instead of targeting the HTML attribute that
we want to target, which is what we used v bind for before we're going to write the name of our prop.
All right.
So it's, it's a different idea because we're no longer binding to an H HTML attribute, but we are
doing a very similar idea.
We are binding to a prop and we're saying that it's going to have some kind of dynamic value.
Now, in this case, we don't really have a dynamic value because true is hard coded.
However, there's nothing stopping us from putting something here that could be a reference, for example,
to a data property on the main nav component or even in line putting some kind of complex JavaScript
thing like an object or an array.
So the key takeaway here is if you ever have a prop that is a string, that is static, that is constant,
that is unchanging, what we have on line 36 is totally fine.
If we have a prop in comparison that is depending on some kind of data property or as some kind of JavaScript
object or primitive, that is not a basic string.
We do have to use the V bind syntax to make Vue recognize that.
So in this case Vue is going to say I have a boolean.
True, not just a string of tr eui.
Now as you may recall, whenever we have the v bind syntax, we have that alternative shortcut and that
shortcut is just going to be the colon by itself and it is applicable here as well.
So I'm going to remove this and we're going to get colon.
Is primary equals true?
Now we're going to get another warning from s lint.
So let me hover my mouse over here and we'll see.
The warning is actually is primary must be hyphen it.
So let me just.
Give you a quick heads up on this one.
What we have right now on line 37 is totally valid and technically allowed in view.
The preference of the view style guide is whenever we have a prop with multiple words in it.
It prefers that we use kebab case.
Kebab case as a reminder is where we separate the subsequent words with a dash.
We keep everything lowercase and we in.
We separate every two words with a dash.
So it looks like this instead of is primary with a capital P.
We're going to write is primary with a lowercase P and a dash in between the two.
All right.
It's exactly the same concept as when we have profile image right here and action button right here,
written s kabob case while we register the components in the upper camel case right here.
So see the differences between our JavaScript right here and our template component instantiation.
It's the same idea.
Behind the scenes, Vue is able to interpret both Upper Camel case and the kebab case.
It recognises either one and in fact, because we feed in a prop called is dash primary a right here,
we're still going to have access to the camel case version of this when we react to this prop in our
action bun component so we're still going to have access to is primary.
In just a moment, we'll see that within our action button.
But this is just a preference of the view style guide.
That's how it likes for us to write out our two components.
It's the same principle as we have with our components.
The View Style Guide generally prefers this hyphenation in the HTML template and it prefers the upper
camel case in the JavaScript portion of the view component file.
And that's just because it's keeping inline and inconsistency with the preferences of the language,
right?
JavaScript and HTML are two separate languages with their own preferences, and so Vue is honoring how
both of those languages tend to like to do things.
So in HTML, for example, if you look at things like the divs and the URLs and lines, it has a preference
for all lowercase.
And that's the preference that we're honoring here with names like Profile, Dash, Image and Action
Dash Button in comparison in JavaScript, JavaScript likes the upper case letters to differentiate the
words, and that's what we stick within in the JavaScript section.
However, behind the scenes, Vue interprets them both basically the same, and it's able to convert
from one to the other.
So once again, we're going to feed in a prop called is primary with a dash.
We're going to be able to use it in its regular camel case format in the action button component.
So let's see how we do that.
Let's now transition to our action one component and see what code we can add here to make this work.
So just like with any prop, just like with text right here, we first have to tell our action button
to expect a prop here.
We tell it to expect a text prop.
We now need to add a second string to this array and this is now our second prop and it's going to be
called is primary.
And this is just proof that we are able to to provide the regular camel case spelling of this prop capital
P in comparison to this one, because view converts it behind the scenes.
This was a big point of confusion for me when I was starting out with Vue because I take things very
literally.
So I said, If it's written this way here, it has to be written the same way.
Here it does not view very easily converts from kabob case to camel case end in reverse.
Okay, so now we've told our action band that it's going to receive and is primary prop.
What do we actually want to do with it?
Well, we actually have reference to every prop within our data object as well as within our computed
properties.
And we reference our props on the this keyword.
Right.
We earlier saw how we could reference our data properties under this keyword in the computed section.
Well, we have the same concept with props.
So because we have these two props right here, we can reference this text as well as this dot is primary
and we're actually able to do that in our data returned object as well because remember, props are
totally independent, so they can flow into the component and data can construct its own action button
component data using those props as reference.
So what I propose we do is we use the boolean value of the is primary prop to set the initial value
of the primary data key.
All right, let me write it out and then we'll talk about it.
So right here on the right hand side, instead of always hard coding.
True, I'm going to write this.
That is primary.
And it's a little bit confusing because we're using similar names.
But just to reiterate, we have the is primary prop versus the primary data key.
But whatever the is primary prop value is it's going to flow in and set the primary value.
And the beautiful part about that design is now the parent component is going to decide what kind of
action button to render.
So, for example, when we pass in true what's going to happen well is primary is set to true so this
is going to add value to primary equal the true which will force the computed button class to execute
and view is going to apply a primary property of true and a secondary property of false for the CAC
class object which will apply the primary button styles and give us the first version of the button.
Conversely, if we pass in and is primary argument to false, well then we'll initialize our primary
property on the action button components data to false, which will cause a totally different set of
styles to be applied because here in our button class this will be the inverse.
Our primary property will be set to this that primary which is going to be false.
And our in inverse case or the opposite of this, that primary will be true.
So if the parent component renders an action button and passes a is primary prop of false, we're going
to apply the secondary styles to this action button and get a totally different rendered button.
So now all that's left to do is to try out both of these styles in the browser.
So I'm going to save this.
I'm going to get rid of these comments.
And let's start off with the is primary property being set to true?
So I'm going to go to my browser and I'm going to refresh just for safety because I know sometimes it
doesn't work.
We do have our sign in button in its normal, our big blue button at primary styles.
And if I go to my view dev tools and I click on my action button component, we can now see in a separate
section the props that are flowing into the component and you can see the is primary prop is flowing
in as true.
That is setting the initial value of the data primary property true, which in turn is leading to this
kind of dynamic JavaScript object which is applying the correct styles to our button.
Now let's see what happens if I go back to the code and I change this to false, save this file, go
back to my browser.
If we apply that style, we should predictably see a totally different button, the secondary version
of the action button.
And we do.
And that's to be expected because now we pass in a different boolean value for is primary that sets
the initial data, that sets the computed properties and now we get the secondary styles.
And that's all there is to take away from this lesson.
We are now using the concept of props, which are just inputs that we pass from the parent to the child
to determine some piece of how the props of how the child component rather renders.
So we can customize elements of our child component.
We can customize the text that displays.
We can also use props to customize the mechanics of how the component works.
We are totally welcome to use props to, for example, set the initial data of the component.
Right.
That's the beautiful part is we don't have to create two separate action buttons like a primary action
button and a secondary action button.
We certainly could do that potentially, but you really have to pick the right balance between reusability
and in this case, if we just have a button that serves the same purpose to display text and it just
has two different colour variants or two different ways to render aesthetically, this seems to me like
a reasonable way to to go where the parent will just declare the kind of button that it needs and just
give it a piece of text through props.
And we're going to get that level of flexibility and reusability from one single action button component.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.